# JavaScript Introduction

---

### Values

Let's get started by understanding values. And what do I mean by that?

When we write code, especially when we write JavaScript code, we typically have the intention of manipulating what the user sees on the screen. Outputting some texts, updating some texts, maybe outputting some number, anything like that..

And therefore, we typically work with **values** in our code. We might be working with some text, for example. Maybe some texts the user entered in an input...

Working with text - or `strings` as it's called in programming - is very common. And that's a typical value we work with in JavaScript.

String values are one key value type we work with all the time in programming. But another key value type would, for example, be `numbers`.

That could be an age of a user or the length of a string... so many possibilities !

And there are other value types as well, which we are going to see throughout this course section. (`Booleans`, `Objects`, `Arrays`...)

Now, when we work with values, we typically do that in the context of **variables**.

And that's another key concept which you, by the way, will encounter in basically every programming language out there, not just in JavaScript.

### Variables

A variable is basically a box, a container.
You could say variables are **_labeled data containers_**. (A container that contains a value and has a name)

And the idea is the following : If you have a certain value, let's say the text - the string - a user entered, or the length of that text - so a number - Then you might want to store that value in such a data container so that you can use it later on in your code, in a different operation.

For example, if I am doing a counter on my website, I need a variables (a data container) to be displayed on my page, changed and then displayed again, several times.

That is data management through code.
